One of the most popular and basic supervised algorithms is Regression.
There are many types of regression, but two of the most popular are Linear Regression and Logistic Regression.
Regression can be used for cases where we need predict a pattern i.e. temperature, prices, etc.

Linear regression:
y = m * x + c
Not very good for classification.
Data quality can effect the model too much.
It is computationaly cheaper.
Can be used for predicting sales, trends, impact of price changes, risk assesment of finances.

Logistic Regression: (sigmoid curve)
The range of a sigmoid function is -infinity to infinity
logistic formula from straingt line : y = m1x1 + m2x2 + .....
to get the desired range : log(y/(1-y)) where y = m1 * x1 + m2 * x2 + ......
Used when output is in binary format (one or the other)
Decides if the value is 0 or 1 based on the threshold
Used for weather prediction, illness determination


Classification:
Divinding the dataset into different categories by adding respective labels.
Some popular classsification algorithms :
Decision Tree   Rndom Forest   Naive Bayes   KNN    SVM

* Decision tree : step by step algorithm which works on if condition 1 is true check condition 2, if false execute a task.
                    Not suitable for larger datasets.
                    readable algorithm, so you know why this algo took the decison it did.

* Random forest : creates multiple decison trees and merges all of those to get a better result.
                    devides the dataset into smaller subsets and creates decisons trees on each of those.

* Naive bayes : based on bayes theorem which asssumes thst each faeture in the dataset is independent.
                    it's simple and effective for datasets of small and average size.
                    quite useful in NLP and document classification.

* KNN : K-Nearest neighbours where K is the number of neighbours you want to consider.
            this algo classifies a dataset based on the similar group of features of K number.
            any point is claassified based on which neighbour group it's nearest to.
           